All right, so I figured I'd do an updated review on Vid IQ. Honestly, I don't know if I've ever even done a review on Vid IQ. If I have, it's been years. I really don't recall doing one on this website now. I use VidIQ all the time. I've been using it for years and I've actually been increasing my use of it because it's just getting really good. So, I felt like, hey, I should probably do a review for my Learn Wire channel. Right. So, this is Vid IQ. I've been a paid customer for years. So, it's been over 5 years I've been a paid customer month after month for this tool, Vid IQ, right? And they just continue to keep adding things. They keep staying up with AI technology, adding in the ability to create thumbnails and to help you with ideation for your next YouTube video and all that. So, if you're doing anything with YouTube, you're going to want to stick around for this full review right here. So, this is the website right over here. I like to start off by just saying, look at the traffic that's coming to this website. It's the real deal. It's getting almost 6 million visitors per month to their website right over here. A little bit of a discrepancy on pricing. If we go click on pricing, you'll see I'm just going to go over to monthly. Now, they have the free and then they have a boost at $19 a month. You can get it cheaper, the annual right there, but a monthly and then coaching plan for $2.99 per month, but there's a plan between free and boost and that I don't see advertised on their website. But when you log into your account, look at it like this. I'm on currently on the pro plan. It's $10 a month. Now, I don't really know if this is because I'm grandfathered in on this price. So, the pricing is a little bit like I don't know for certain what the actual price is. If I'm grandfathered in to the good pricing or what, cuz then the boost is more expensive at $24. Their monthly is only $19. Unfortunately, discrepancy when you already have an account, you're already paying the pricing that's being displayed to me versus and then you have the max plan and you don't even see the max plan. So, you don't see the pro or the max plan. I think that is partly because most people that use this tool, they probably do analytics on this 99% of the time. People start off with a free account, right? And then when they go, this is what you're going to get presented with. You're going to get presented with these pricings that I'm seeing right over here. You can manage one, two, or three channels. If you have more channels, you can reach out to them. They can add more channels to your account. But it looks like it's still $10 a month for the pro plan. This is going to get you keywords. You're going to get 10 thumbnail generations. And I don't know if that's per day or if that's per month. They don't specify that, but I haven't had any limitations with the keywords, the 10 video ideas, 10 keyword research. They might maybe that's 10 searches per day, something like that. But this is the plan that I'm on right now. I'm going to walk you through. We're going to start off on the homepage. And I've got multiple channels right here hooked up. And I'm not sure if that's like a flaw or something like that cuz I've been on some of their higher paid plans. And when you step back down, sometimes some of those channels still stay on your account. I'll just move forward with that. But I'm not complaining about that right now. So, you'll see that I have this one my personal brand channel right over here. We just crossed 550,000 views on that channel. And then you can just go and if you have multiple channels, you'll just go over here and we'll use Learn Wire for the rest of this, right? So, we're at 2.2 million views right over here, subscribers. So, it's going to give you a little dashboard view of what's going on with your channel. And it's going to have all these title suggestions. Like right here, the one that I published today already, um, it's saying that I should publish this as the title. I spent a month with Smarter Q. Here's what it worked. Well, I don't like doing those kind of titles because I didn't spend a month in the tool. I only spent like an hour in the tool, right? So, I could do I spent an hour with Smarter Q. Maybe that would be I don't know if that would get the same kind of traction. But I really am going for search that my channel is really based on getting search traffic. So, I want to rank for the products that I'm reviewing and review, right? But, so some of those I'll just kind of ignore. You can actually just go push that button and ignore. You can go over here and update some of these right over here. This new Sudoku maker $100 a day. This loophole making $100 a day. So, it's telling me that we could upgrade that one. But it's not really much of a difference in title. So, I'd probably move forward delete that one as well. But then you can come down here and you can see some of the really cool things. You can see these niche outliers videos from small creators that are getting a lot of views. 72,000 views. Slides are dead. How Gamma and Claude and Zappier are working. Right? So, like you can go and start looking at what's going on in your niche, in your space. Small creators with just a few thousand subscribers, but they're getting tens of thousands of views. So, you might want to go check out the content that they're creating. There's a trending keyword, social media management, and that is trending up. Then, boom, there's a big skyrocket. This is telling me that my channel, I might want to create some more content around this. At any time, you can ask Vid IQ what keywords we would want to create around that. So, you push this button and it'll pull out a chat. You can see all the different chats right over here and we'll do that in just a minute. Then you have title suggestions. Going to keep going through. It's it has a clipping tool where you can take a long form video and it'll turn it into 10 clips. Some more niche outliers and some more trending keywords. So this is your dashboard. You can come all the way down and it'll tell you what milestones and it just keeps going over different trending words. So you get best AI tools like it's giving us some really good keywords, searchbased keywords that we could go and create content clusters. is what I call them on YouTube is create a series of videos going after that keyword so you can start getting more search traffic for that keyword and more authority on that keyword as well. Right? And then the next thing you can go into optimize. You can start optimizing your videos. So it's going to have all your videos over here. It's going to give you a title score and a thumbnail score. So it's liking this thumbnail right here and it's giving it a 96. So we probably don't need to change that out much. Right over here we don't have the thumbnail score yet, but the title is only a 61. Right over here we're both in green. So, probably don't need a whole lot of changes. This one right over here, they fired Claude Opus 4.6. So, this one actually performed pretty well for me, right? Views are down. You guys probably already noticed that. There's just nothing I can do about that. I'm creating the same content quality. I'm actually trying to get better. I think my thumbnails are probably better than they've ever been. I've been trying to shrink down my videos. [clears throat] They're not 30 minutes long anymore. I've really been trying to stick to under 20 minutes and using AI to cut out a parts of the video where I kind of just go on and ramble. It's cutting all that out. I think my video production has gotten a little bit better, too. You can see I've tried to add in zoom effects. I'm doing the editing myself, trying to make the videos higher quality. I think they are they're definitely not lower quality than they've ever been, and my views are still down by like 60%, but there's nothing I can do about it. I'm going to still truck along and continue to keep producing content for you guys. Part of it is that there's over 115 million YouTube channels out there right now. 5 years ago, there was less than half of that. There was probably like 20 million channels. Two, it's the YouTube shorts kind of thing where the homepage is all about YouTube shorts and they're only presenting about three long form videos per customer. It's more competitive. It's harder to get long form views. 600 views. I'll take that. That one did really well. Come over here and if you see something that you want to fix, you could click on the title button right here. It's going to open up this right here and you're going to be able to see that it's going to suggest some different titles for us right over here. I tested every AI thumbnail maker. So, it's going to give us some more title options. Most AI thumbnail makers are trash. AI thumbnail makers battle. I tested every AI thumbnail maker. And it's saying that this one's the best. We have an 80 right over here. So, we could increase it a little bit. I think that the one that we went with is fine. You can go over here. It'll also go with some different thumbnail options right over here as well. You can create a new thumbnail by pushing the plus button right there. We got details. Get a content score analyzing video content right here. So, a content analysis. I actually haven't used this before. Let's see what it ends up doing. While we're waiting for that, if you guys would like to get more clarity with the software that you're using in your business, what software you should actually be using, how to create your own software stack, cut out all the noise, get more clarity in your business when it comes to AI software, then you would want to go and check out my AI software workflows, my brand new school community. We're currently at 253 members. And I come over here to the about page. This is going to be a paid community at the 300 mark. So 253 members, so less than 50 people are going to get in for free. You're going to get grandfathered in and everybody after that is going to have to pay. It's going to be a low ticket cost to get in. So it won't be too expensive. I'll be adding a bunch of stuff to the classroom. Right here we have a build your first AI software stack. Very valuable information in that core course. And then I'm going to be adding a bunch of software stacks and a bunch more courses that you'll get access to. So you want to go and check that out. All right, let's go back in here and take a look. It's still analyzing. I'm going to skip that right now. I'm going to cancel and delete and we're going to move on. You can actually see it's finalizing the analysis right there. I don't want to click off. I'm going to click on preview. It's still going to analyze. So, there we go. We go to preview and you can see what your thumbnail looks like. There's our thumbnail right there. Then we can come back over here and switch to the light mode. I usually use the dark mode. We'll go with the light mode the rest of the time. Then we can come over here and go into a new chat. We're going to skip that new chat. Let's go over to the bread and butter. What's made this tool so good for so long is it's the best YouTube keyword research tool out there. Let's just say we want to go with AI thumbnail and push enter. It's going to give us the amount of searches about 40,000 the medium competition score. We can get video ideas just a bunch of keyword research. This is like your SEO powerhouse. This is kind of like your ah refs for YouTube. You come over here and go with matching terms. So all these terms are going to have the AI thumbnail inside of them so that you can dominate and get authority for a keyword right over here. You can select all this, copy all these keywords, go and throw them in the AI coach over here or a large language model and say, "Hey, analyze these." That's what we'll do. Look at all these keywords that you're going to get. You can look at the competition. They give you an overall score. You can look at just the green. So all these green keywords right over here, this is what we should be going for. Obviously, some of them are not going to be relevant to us. Then you can go over here and look at what questions people are asking when it comes to AI thumbnails and so forth. So, you could make an entire YouTube channel around AI thumbnails. Really cool stuff. So, we copied all that. Then we can go into a new chat and I can say, "Hey, take this list of keywords and keep the keyword in each video title. give me my next 20 video titles in table format. And it usually does this without you having to say in table format, but still. And then look, you can click over here. You have all these tools. You can attach a screenshot of something or a thumbnail. You can go with I'm going to go with the deep mode. I like to select that and then push go. And the unique thing about this is it's already connected to our YouTube channel. It has the analytics. It knows what videos are performing well for us. It knows what we just asked of it. It knows the keywords that we just pasted and gave to it. And you can see on the screen right here, it knows what videos have done well for us. And then it's also going to say, "Hey, well, this worked for you. Here's the keywords that I suggest. We gave it 200 or 300 keywords. It's we told it to choose 20 of them, right? [snorts] It's going to create our 20 video content plan for us. We don't have to leave the platform to go to Claude or Gemini or Chat GBT. We can just do it right here. That's what makes this unique. We don't have to do advanced prompts. We don't have to do copy and pasting. It's already connected to our YouTube channel. So, this is just gamechanging. Pro tip for LearnWire. You have a specific winner format that works well for the LTD and software review titles above. Consider using your trash versus treasure framing in the thumbnails. most are trash to boost the click-through rate even further. So, there's follow-ups we can do. Let's go take a look at what it did. It did know that Notebook LM and JGBT are currently trending terms in your niche like AI agents and YouTube automation. Right over here, it has notebook LM. So, Google Notebook, and it's even given us the title score. These are all green. Anything under 60 is not green. So, they're all 60 or higher, which is great. Google Notebook LM advanced guide features you missed. It'll tell you why it works. notebook versus that. I tested 70 I tested five AI video generators. So AI video generators so you don't have to stop using stock footage. This AI video tool is better. Chat GBT free verse plus is the upgrade worth it. So it gave us a really nice content plan. You can see some of them are using the AI thumbnail. So it worked those into it. Next is so it gave us our content plan which is great. What I've done in the past is come over here and pick out the 10 keywords that you like and then tell it, hey, create my next video titles. And you must keep the keywords. And it does a really good job at creating clickable browseworthy titles that also include your keyword in it. So you can actually get search traffic and browse related. So I really like that. It's a great way and a new way to use chat inside of a software that actually means something that actually has something special going for it as opposed to just having to provide all the data for it and prompt it and everything. Really like the chat features. The keywords are obviously the big has always been the bread and butter. But they continue to keep adding more and more features. We have an outliers section. I'm going to go back and turn this to dark mode. I just like the dark mode better with Vid IQ. Now you can see we could come over here and say like notebook LM and push enter and see what's coming up with notebook LM. Can also come over here and add a filter. Publishing date, the last 3 months. And then this is the best way I think to look at everything that is like a two. I want to look at videos that got at least a two outlier score or higher. I also want to look at video of channels that have 20,000 subscribers. And you can go with video length. So I'm going to just say apply. So they actually have that quick filter. If we want to look at shorts or we want to look at long form videos. And now look at what we've got right here. We have all these outliers right over here. You can see just 12,000 subscribers. They got 68,000 views. Notebook LM. I built a prompt engineer free and unlimited. So, this is going to pull all these great video ideas up that were posted in the last 90 days that have to do with Notebook LM on small channels that are 20,000 subscribers or less. Then you can go over here into the more tools. Now, we can go into the daily ideas right here. You're going to click on this. It's going to automatically tell you what your next video should be. If you don't want to do keyword research, you don't want to chat with the AI, you just want to come over here, you can go over here and it'll tell me that, hey, we've got this kind of stuff right over here. Rethinking your startup strategy. move beyond chat GBT behind the scenes reviewing trending AI software that's saying that those are high opportunities and then with AI software AI powered workflows automate your daily tasks without coding the fastest ways to learn no code solutions with AI software top five AI tools that will change the way you work forever you can just heart the ones that you want to keep and then you have your saved over here you have your dismissed over here and you can fully manage you could literally just come in here and use the daily ideas feature and you would be set. But it doesn't stop there. You have your competitors right over here. You can go to the competitors section. You can add your competitors over here. You can see what they're publishing, what's taking off for them, and it will give you their outlier score and what you might need to create content on as well. Subscribers, I think that is an upgraded feature. I am blocked out of this, so I can't see advanced [clears throat] information about what my subscribers are actually watching. Then you have a learn academy. There's classes right over here. If you don't know how to do YouTube keyword research and so forth, they have create right over here. You can go in here and start with a title idea. It's just insane the amount of tools that you can get in here. Thumbnails right over here. I'll just show you some of these thumbnails that it's created right over here. You can come in here. It created this thumbnail right here. You could go and describe what thumbnail you want. You can add thumbnail. You can attach something if you want to as well. And then it will go out there and create your thumbnail for you. They've gotten way better at creating thumbnails than these ones you're seeing right over here. You can see this was months ago right here. I didn't like these and I didn't use them, but then it's getting better right here. I'll show you another thing here in a minute. Stay tuned. I'll log into my YouTube account and show you inside of the dashboard. Everything I'm showing you right here is half of what Vid IQ can do. When you're scrolling on YouTube, there's an extension installed on Chrome and it does it's a powerhouse. So, stick with me. I'll show you some more about what the tool can do. So you have all these tools. You have clipping script writer. It'll write scripts for you. I'm not going to show you how to do that. Shorts generator. And then there's a generate right here as well. And it will just do all that for you. So then now I'm going to go over here. We'll log into my YouTube real quick. Okay, perfect. So we're inside my YouTube Studio dashboard. I'm going to go and click on this one right here. I think we'll just go click on the edit button. And then we'll come down to the thumbnail right here. Now you can see all this different stuff like all these things right here are being provided by Vid IQ the plugin. You can get to what you need to get to from the dashboard over here on the Chrome. It'll also tell you what your basic stats are on your channel right there as well. But when we come down here, you can go and I click this button right here, generate. So you upload your video. It reads the transcript once it's uploaded and then it has a little button right over here. But look, quick generate. I clicked that button right there and it created this right here. This thumbnail is what it created for us. And I had people already reach out. AI ranked me number two. It brought in this little screenshot right over here. Look at all the blue in the background, the glow in the back. That was the shirt I was actually wearing in the video. It [snorts] looks very much like me. This looks like a high quality image. They are finally moving into being one of the best AI thumbnail softwares. It was really bad before where I just not even usable thumbnails and now it's starting to get super good. I even had some of you comment, "Hey, I like the blue thumbnail. Where'd you get that one?" Right? So, this one actually is beating what like the ones that I'm creating in Nano Banana and so forth, right? Because of all the stuff that this can do, it is actually taking a headsh shot of you in the video. This is the shirt I was wearing in the video. And then AI ranked me number two. It got the full concept of the video and made a really high quality thumbnail. So, that's just a nice feature of it. And of course, you have all these things that it'll do over here as well. Of course, it'll automatically add tags inside of here. So, there's a ton that it will do even when you're uploading your video or when you're researching other videos. Let's just say we come back over here to YouTube. Let's just say we look at Nate Black's latest video, why I stopped posting on YouTube. There's a bunch of different things. You'll be able to see how many views, the trending, what how many thumbnails. You can click on the thumbnail, you can download the thumbnail if you want to. You can remix at any point. And so this is a really cool feature right here. There's another when you go show transcript, you can copy the transcript right here instead of having to drag all the way down and copy the whole thing. It'll copy the transcript without timestamps. So you can go throw that in your large language models. It's little subtleties like that that are gamechanging. Some people create simple plugins, Chrome extensions, just to be able to do one little function right here. This is the most fully developed YouTube tool that's on the market, period. Then we can come over here. Or we can also remix this, right? So we could click this right here, add a competitor, advanced embed. Or we can just push the remix and it's going to pop out right here. It's going to give us some different titles. Had to stop manually creating YouTube shorts. That would be a a new take on this. Why I had to stop using a content writing tool. So it remixes this. You can copy that or you can generate as well. I'm going to kind of end it right there. But there is just so much you can do. If you're going to do YouTube, what tool should I use that can do everything? like ideiation, what video I should do next, advanced analytics, an AI, chatbot coach, outliers, competitors, keyword research, and SEO. It'll also create thumbnails, and that's only the tip of the iceberg. This would be the tool that I think is fully developed. That's a multi-million dollar funded tool and it's also led by a creator that has millions of subscribers and knows what they're doing on YouTube and keeps up and has a firsthand conversation and contact with the YouTube management team. It's great tool. I can't recommend this tool enough. There is a link you can check it out. You can sign up for free to start using the tool and upgrade when you're ready. I'll leave a link below you want to go check out. Vid IQ is a top choice for YouTube. Thanks for joining me in this review and I'll see you in the next video.